[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> So here we go.
>> So it will just take a
little while for me to make
the connection and
have him come through.
[SIGHS]
>> I'm just going to take a
few minutes to get totally out
of the way.
One more moment.
It is mostly her wanting
to fully feel our essence.
We are ready.
She is almost ready.
[INHALES]
>> (LOUDLY) I say good day
to you this day of your time.
How are you all?
>> (ACCENTED) It is the
beginning, is it not?
>> We would like to remind you
of the essence of the soul.
>> We are appreciative of the
opportunity to be of service
to you, you may ask.
>> We thank you for the
co-creation of the interaction.
Please proceed
however you so desire.
[BUZZING]
>> Several traditions on Planet
Earth have a story of a human
that began communicating with a
guidance system that was beyond
explanation.
They claim that this
information was given to them
by a non-physical source.
These were the seers.
The way-showers.
The enlightened ones.
The renegades.
The channelers.
Who delivered beautiful
messages about the power
of love, compassion, and unity.
Another unifying
message delivered
through several
channels is that we
must open our hearts to be of
true service on this planet.
To go where we're guided and
bloom where we're planted.
Songs, jingles, and
rhymes are stuck on repeat
in the chaos of modern society.
But what happens when we
stop and we really listen?
What guidance will
we hear when we
open our hearts to inspiration
from beyond our minds?
The word "channeling" has
become a very polarized term
in some traditions.
And it became only connected
with the dark arts.
Those who were
speaking or hearing
the voice of anyone
other than the Almighty
were immediately
labeled heretics.
>> You will not be able to
discover this for yourselves.
What I hope to be
able to show you,
the different levels
of consciousness
in which your dwell at.
>> Channeling is the phenomenon
as I see it whereby people open
to higher information,
higher level information,
that can be accessed through
a number of different means.
What I prefer is the good
old fashioned word oracle.
>> Channeling is a form
of spirit shamanism.
You know, it is communing
with the spirit.
When we understand the old
traditions of shamanism,
it was very normal for different
people in tribal culture
to be the ones to bring
the message, the wisdom
from the ancestors,
from different beings,
to communicate to the tribe ways
that we can progress ourselves
and become much more
fortified in who
we are as a tribal culture.
>> Many people who function
as channelers report
the experience of receiving
information from some other
intelligence.
And sometimes they will give
this other intelligence a name
or they receive a name by which
this other intelligence wishes
to be known.
>> I'm Sheila Gillette, and
I'm the direct voice channel
for the group collectively
known as Theo.
>> My name is Darryl Anka.
I'm a channel for Bashar.
And this is what
we term the entity
that I channel which presents
itself as an extraterrestrial
being.
And that what's happening
here is a telepathic contact
between him and
myself that allows
me to function as a channel
for him as a translation device
to bring through his
information to humans on Earth.
>> When I started channeling,
it was beings that were close
to us.
Like more spirits.
But eventually, it came up
to be many other beings.
Beings that were
alive in other places.
Also beings that are not alive,
but they were not dead neither.
So that changed completely
my understanding
of what was channeling.
>> The first one that
spoke through me was Orlos.
And said, I'm preparing
you for higher teachers.
And so my body was
being worked on.
And then when Theo came
in, then Orlos says,
the higher teachers
are here now.
When Theo first came in
and I was laying down,
and they were so loud.
And what I felt in my body as
they came in the right side is,
you know when you hit
your elbow and you
have that tingling sensation?
It's not very comfortable.
My whole upper body did that
when they first came in.
And it was like, oh, wow.
When they came in, they
said, we are 12 archangels,
and we can be known
collectively by the name Theo.
And they said, we will
not identify singularly,
because it is not the
messenger that is important,
it is the message.
So they've never
identified who the 12 are.
I have an idea, but I'm--
you know, they've not
told me specifically.
>> When I was in a meditative
state in the channeling class
that I took and the connection
happened between me and Bashar,
that word "Bashar" was just
there in the connection.
And I think it had to
happen at that moment.
Because Bashar is an Arabic
word I found out much later,
because I don't speak Arabic.
But it is half of my background.
Bashar is a physical being.
Though he has evolved
to the point where
he's very close to
becoming non-physical.
But he does have some of
the abilities of spirit
to see into other dimensions.
So he is definitely
seeing multidimensionally.
And that's kind of
their natural state.
>> The question
allowed you to create.
Be the question.
>> There are some of them that
take a lot of energy to be
channeled.
But there is other beings that
you can just listen to them
or feel them and you
understand whatever
they are trying to say.
So there's no even need
for them to be inside you
or to speak through you.
You just can translate them.
So there's a whole spectrum of
different ways of channeling.
>> I am Dr. Helané Wahbeh,
director of research
at the Institute
of Noetic Sciences.
The Ions Channeling Research
Program was my inspiration.
So I hold the big
picture of the program
and the principal
investigator of many
of the specific
studies, especially
around trance channeling.
As a child, young child, I
was really pretty sensitive.
I would feel people's emotions
when I walked into rooms.
I would feel the
energy of the room.
I was really
sensitive to the dark
because I could
feel what I thought
were beings in the spaces.
And it caused a little bit
of anxiety for me as a child.
And I never really talked
to anybody about it.
But as I grew older
and was connecting
with my mom and her
side of the family,
that whole awareness
of this ability
to experience things
beyond my five senses
just expanded exponentially.
I think the major
triggering point
for me was when I
was 10 years old.
And she took me to my
grandparents' house
for what they called meetings.
And there was probably
like 30 people
sitting around in a circle.
And my uncle was at
the top of that circle,
and he was speaking in this
completely bizarre, unique way.
It was my uncle there, but
it didn't look like him.
His words weren't the same.
His voice,
mannerisms, everything
was completely different.
So as this young
10-year-old, it was scary.
I was nervous that
whatever was in my uncle
was going to jump into
me, and that I was
going to start doing something.
It was exciting, too,
because it felt important.
My uncle continued to do
this trance channeling work.
And he believed he was
channeling something
called the universal mind.
>> Universal mind.
Source.
God.
Cosmic consciousness.
Humanity is named the
source of all life.
Many different things over
the course of history.
Developing countless
practices and strategies
to connect with this
divine source of wisdom
and inspiration.
Is there an ultimate energy
source that everyone taps into?
Like a central hub where all
information flows in and out.
Imagine a place where everyone,
everywhere, every dimension,
everything is connected to.
>> Many ancient cultures
have at their heart the idea,
the principle, of there being
a universal mind in which all
of us participate.
So for example, within
hermetic philosophy,
there's frequent reference
to something called nous,
or an infinite or
universal mind.
Within Vedic philosophy,
references made to something
called akasha, which
in a Western context,
the earliest such references
appeared in the book
"Isis Unveiled," which was
published in 1877 by Madame
H.P. Blavatsky, a
world-traveled Russian occultist
and religious
spiritual visionary.
She wrote that there exists
this ethereal substance that
records and preserves for
eternity all human events,
all human thoughts,
all human interactions.
And starting at that
point, that term
really began to enter
into our common vocabulary
and entered into
Western culture.
>> Everything is here and now.
Everything is all connected.
It's not a particular
place you have to go.
It can be accessed from
anywhere, anywhere, any time.
It's just the idea that all
information never goes away.
It's all here and now.
It cannot be destroyed.
It cannot cease to exist.
So if you are the frequency
of a particular piece
of information, that's
the kind of information
that will, so to speak,
pop into your awareness.
Because information is
accessible from anywhere,
any time, any place.
>> The best way to describe
in human knowledge a certain
record keeping, it is not
a library of books held
somewhere.
But it is information
that is in the soul, that
is a continuum, that is resonant
in each cell of your body.
So the record is held
there within your being.
Your human experience
is the Earth suit
that you've chosen to
navigate this planet.
And so the soul enters
this Earth suit.
It has cells which the
soul permeates all of them.
And that is where the records
are held in all those cells.
But more importantly, in
the energy of the soul
that is eternal.
You can speak of it as one's
multidimensionality and
vibrational frequency.
>> Your universal self cannot be
found within the thinking mind.
This is just meant
to process, yes.
To process, to receive.
Process.
Transmit.
You have learned this
through the internet.
Look at the way that
you have expanded
through your technology.
As you used to get
news maybe months,
years from somebody on the
other side of the world.
Now you have a phone
conversation with them, yes?
So it is becoming
more available.
And so is your connection
to this universe mind
through your higher mind.
So if you are looking
for this universal mind,
would you not connect
with your universal self?
>> Channeling Bashar for so
long now, almost 39 years,
a lot of his philosophy,
a lot of his perspective,
has sort of rubbed off on me.
He refers to what we might
call universal mind or God
or goddess, all that
is, as all that is.
Literally it's existence
itself that is self-aware,
that is intelligent.
But it's intelligent on
a very different level
than we understand what
that expression is.
He basically is saying
it's only one thing,
and we're all a part of it.
Because there is
nothing outside of it.
But from his perspective,
the one thing
itself, whatever you want
to call it, is beyond that.
Time is a concept within it,
it's not subject to time.
>> Many traditions and
philosophies have spoken about
a higher self, or oversoul.
But what is it?
>> We have one self, which is
the one with the brain that is
trying to survive.
That's the self with
a body and emotion.
The one that we call the ego,
which is I. And the higher self
is actually the essence
that created us.
That made us be
what we are today.
So it's our real me.
So when we talk about
the higher self,
it's not someone
superior to you.
It's basically you.
The actual you.
Talking to one tiny
side of itself.
That is, one ego.
So when you connect
with your higher self,
you can see things very
clear, because it doesn't
have any time, any space.
It's not limited by your ego.
>> I do believe in the soul.
I do believe in the spirit.
And to me, they're
two different things.
And the higher self is, to
me, another term for the soul.
I think they're interchangeable.
When we start to wake up,
those first awakened moments,
we remember that there's
something outside of ourself,
something bigger than ourselves.
And that's how it
starts as little kids,
or it may happen when you're 47.
It doesn't matter the
age, it's going to happen.
But that's the first
sensation you get that there
is a higher self, a soul.
And it's driving you.
It's animating you.
It's directing you.
And so the recognition of
that is really important.
It's the first
step to waking up.
>> In order for us to
understand the higher self from
the perspective of how we
look at things shamanically,
the best way that we could say
it is that when people talk
about the shadow self,
that's the higher self.
The higher self isn't
this illuminated being
that's just sitting
there going, (VOCALIZES).
The higher self is the part
of your spiritual essence
that is so liberated that
it is there to show you
where you are not
seeking for liberation.
>> Your true nature
is non-physical.
We'll say spirit if you
wish to use that word.
You are all in spirit right now.
That's your natural state.
You never leave it.
In a sense, you are only
dreaming that you've left.
That's what physical reality is.
So the so-called higher mind
is actually where most of you
actually resides
as a consciousness,
as a greater being.
The idea of your physical
mind is an extension and not
a large percentage
of your total being.
>> Humans separate the selves
where there's no separation.
The highest self, the
oversoul, is all a part
of your human experience.
The higher self is the sum
total of all your soul.
The vibrational frequency
that is your soul.
That has all that information.
As you speak of the
Akashic Records,
it has all the information.
Your higher power,
you might say.
- Edgar Cayce, the early 20th
century medical clairvoyant,
gave us our portrait
of what we see
when we think of channeling.
He would relax and go into
a sleep-like state or trance
state.
He would receive information
from an extra physical entity
that he referred
to as the source.
>> When this started
happening with me,
this voice was coming out of me.
Then I started trying to
find something or someone
that I could relate
my experience
to to understand it more.
So the first book that I ever
found was an Edgar Cayce book.
And I started reading
it, and I thought, well,
that's what I'm doing.
You know?
That's what's happening to me.
>> Edgar Cayce was an
influential source for me.
And I would almost call
his style more of a trance.
Because he was known as
the sleeping prophet.
So he was an influence
in the sense of he
was part of my education
of what channeling was.
>> Edgar Cayce, his
soul or his messenger,
connected to the individual.
It was like the highway to them
on a vibrational frequency.
>> Is there a vibrational
highway system that can only be
accessed within us?
That allows us to connect
to anyone, anywhere,
any time instantaneously?
Our minds can be
highly influenced
by outside vibrational forces.
But as we have learned
from most masters that
have walked this
planet before us,
presence, practice, and
patience is a prerequisite
to a powerful connection.
But what and who are
we connecting to?
>> We are still taking just
a moment here to settle in.
>> Now, I suppose a question
that we face is whether,
in fact, we are communicating
with energies that exist
outside of the individual.
>> That we do not intervene or
interfere in certain aspects
of other civilizations.
>> Or whether the individual is
personifying some aspect of his
or her own greater psyche.
>> When I channel, I try not
to get too attached to the idea
that it is a certain
being or consciousness,
even if I am calling
upon whatever it is--
a Pleiadian or an angel.
It's all from this bank of
greater awareness, right?
And it's all vibration and
resonance and reflection
of truth.
Whatever comes in is in enough
resonance with your field.
And it exists for you
to expand through.
That's what I love about
channeling, is that it's felt
and it hits.
And it's so unique
because it's not
coming from this linear
information back and forth.
There's an actual
transmission happening.
>> I know the word channeling
can be somewhat polarizing.
But it is somewhat
representative of what
you're doing.
You're acting as a conduit.
You're acting as a channel
to bring through information,
let's say, from a higher level.
Or from more connections
going on within the brain.
Because when you
are in that state,
your brain is sort of
processing information
in a very hyper fast way.
It's making connections
it doesn't normally make.
It's a very clear way of seeing
things and connecting things
together.
Everyone can do this.
Everyone does do this.
>> We all channel energy.
We're channeling that
energy all the time.
You know, someone who's
an artist, a painter,
is a channeler.
A musician is a channeler.
A writer is a channeler.
A clairvoyant is a channeler.
It's just how they receive
information and bring it out.
>> As soon as anyone gets into
a state where they're completely
absorbed, they are in
a channeling state.
>> You are not as
isolated as you may think.
>> A lot of people think
of, I want to be a channel,
don't realize they are already.
In whatever gifts
that they have that
they're bringing
forth to the world.
>> Words like "channeling"
just get a bad rep.
They get put into a position,
and they stay there.
And that's unfortunately.
That's a socially
constructed reality.
And we can't do much about
that except to educate people
on the fact that when they
are in contemplative thought,
they may hear voices
other than their own.
>> As a witnesser of
trance channeling,
it's so incredible to see the
transformation of someone that
you know so intimately to
essentially become a different
person.
And so now as the scientist,
I put my scientist hat on.
And the question is
always, is this real?
What's the source?
Are they really channeling
a different being?
From a personal
perspective, witnessing it,
there's no reason
for my family members
to be making it up, manifesting
these incredibly different well
developed personalities
one after the other.
It just seems that the
probability of that being
faked in some way is so slim.
And while I can't prove that
there's other beings that
are coming in, the felt
sense in the moment
is that this is not
the normal personality
of my mother or my uncle.
And when we think about us being
all interconnected and all one,
perhaps it's just another
aspect of themselves,
which is part of
this greater oneness.
>> Those who have experience
with it will understand.
Because it's experiential.
And so you will have many people
say, I know what that means.
Because they've experienced it.
And more and more and more
daily are having experiences
for a greater understanding.